---
title: A Primer to System Administration - Users and groups
date: 2014-08-08
tags: [Sysadmin]
description: Just some examples, no big deal. Tested on Ubuntu 14.04.
---

## How to create a user
    useradd -m -d <HomeDir> -g <Group> username
     	
It's optional to specify the new user's home directory and group, but I strongly suggest to do so. `-m` stands for create home, `-d` to allocate a directory. (Warning, don't mess up `useradd` and `adduser`, the later one is a higher level's implementation. Here is a [detailed explanation of these two's differences][add_user].)


## How to create a group
    groupadd groupname

## How to add a user to a group
    usermod -a -G <groupname> username
  
where `usermod` means modify a user account, `-a` stands for append, append this user to a group.

[Read more][howto]


## How to list all users in a group
	
	grep '^groupname' /etc/group
	
or `apt-get install members`, then
    
    members groupname
    
## What is sticky bit

### What is sticky bit looks like



Sticky bit is used for directories. As wikipedia said:
> When the sticky bit is set, only the item's owner, the directory's owner, or root can rename or delete files. Without the sticky bit set, any user with write and execute permissions for the directory can rename or delete contained files, regardless of owner.

For example, if the professor create a /homework directory with sticky bit, every student can upload their homework, but they cannot rename or delete other students' homework.

### How to set it
     
     chmod +t /path/to/directory
or

     chmod 1755

where 1 stands for sticky bit, 7 for owner has all privilege, 5 for read and execute privilege for the group, and for others.

Now, /path/to/directory should looks like this (replaced last character):
    
    drwxr-xr-t   1 root     other          0 Nov 10 12:57 test

As wikipedia said, if the sticky-bit is set on the directory without the execution bit set for the others category, it is indicated with a capital T:

    drwxr-xr-T   1 root     other          0 Nov 10 12:57 test
     
[Read more ...][sticky]
## What is setuid

One sentence explanation: Regardless of who runs this program, run it as the user who owns it, not the user that executes it.

### How to set it 
	
	chmod u+s /path/to/file
	
### And it is dangerous

For instance, a simple shell script `showfile.sh` has set setuid as root privilege:

     #!/bin/sh
     # showfile
     ls -l | sort

And If I am a bad guy, I could easily write script :
     
     rm -rf /some/where/important
	
and saved as name `ls`, add my `ls` to the front of $PATH. Now when I tried to run showfile.sh, Boom ! The files are deleted.


[add_user]: http://askubuntu.com/questions/345974/what-is-the-difference-between-adduser-and-useradd
[howto]: http://www.cyberciti.biz/faq/howto-linux-add-user-to-group/
[sticky]: http://www.linuxnix.com/2012/01/sticky-bit-set-linux.html
[jan]: http://www.cs.stevens.edu/~jschauma/615A/