--- 
title: How to deal with Git A-Z?
date: 2014-07-22
tags: [git]
description: A personal Git FAQ
---

In this post I am going to show you some common scenarios you may suffer when you use git. To benefit from this tutorial please make sure you have already set-up a git environment. If not, I would advise you to take a look at [here][set up].

## How to modify file and update to remote repository?

    git add file
    git commit -m "Aha, file modified"
    
Or, just type

    git commit -am "Aha, file modified"

After that, push to remote repository:

    git push origin branch_name

So, what's difference between these two? I will reach to that later.

## How to change last commit?
It's a good practice to fix a wrong commit rather than make a new commit.
So, first, edit the file with the problem, make the corrections, then:

    git add now_right_file
    git commit --amend
    git push --force branch_name   # Warning!
    
Be careful, The `--force` is dangerous, it works fine to me for 99% cases, but it dose have potential harmness, and that's [why Linus doesn't recommend it][force].  

## How to delete files in remote repository?
There are two ways of delete files, delete locally and commit to remote repository, or just directly delete files in remote repository, like:

    git rm --cached file_to_delete
  
Even better, you can delete all the files match a certain [glob][glob]:

	git rm --cached 'merge-*' # delete all the files start with "merge-"
	
## Pull or Fetch?
There already has an excellent and well accepted answer on StackOverflow, it's way much better than my explanation --> [link][pull_fetch]:

> In the simplest terms, `git pull` does a `git fetch` followed by a `git merge`.
> You can do a `git fetch` at any time to update your remote-tracking branches under `refs/remotes/<remote>/`. This operation never changes any of your own local branches under `refs/heads`, and is safe to do without changing your working copy. I have even heard of people running git fetch periodically in a cron job in the background (although I wouldn't recommend doing this).

> A `git pull` is what you would do to bring a local branch up-to-date with its remote version, while also updating your other remote-tracking branches.

## So, what if files conflict after git pull (auto merge failed)

    git pull # will auto merge unconflicted part
    git status # check the information of conflicted files
  
Use your favorite editor to edit the conflicted file with "<<<<<<" and ">>>>>>", save it, commit it, that's all.

[Read more][re co]...

## How to overwrite, rather than merge, one branch from another

	git checkout latest_branch
	git merge -s ours to_overwrite_branch

What's the `ours` means here? It's a merge strategy, you can find it in [git checkout doc][check doc]:

>	  git checkout [--ours| theirs] branch  
	  --ours
 	  --theirs
 	
> When checking out paths from the index, check out stage #2 (ours) or #3 (theirs) for unmerged paths.  

> The index may contain unmerged entries because of a previous failed merge. By default, if you try to check out such an entry from the index, the checkout operation will fail and nothing will be checked out. Using -f will ignore these unmerged entries. The contents from a specific side of the merge can be checked out of the index by using --ours or --theirs. With -m, changes made to the working tree file can be discarded to re-create the original conflicted merge result.

## How to delete a branch?
	git branch -d died_branch
	git push origin --delete die_branch # or git push origin :died_branch
[Read more][delete]...

## How to roll back to a specific commit?
	git reflog show # find revision hash
	git checkout revision_hash .

I will explain this a little bit. `git reflog show` gives us a list of all the commits and their hashes. Then, checkout that specific hash.

Read more:

+ [A deep look at `reflog`][reflog] 
+ [Difference between `reflog` and `log`][fllog]

## What is commit -a?
Many people always ask how to combine `git add` and `git commit` in one command, and the most answered solution is `git commit -a -m "blah blah"`.

Yes and no. For the files which have been `git add` before, `git commit -a` will do the `git add` for you. But for rest files(aka untracked files), we have to the `git add`. If you really want to save the time for these repetitive works, alias is what you are looking for.

## How to git ignore something except a certain file?
In .gitignore:

    # Ignore everything
    *
    !except_script.sh
    
This will ignore everything but except_scrpit.sh.

## How to give up all the changes since last commit?
Once my silly cat was dancing on my keyboard after a commit mess up all the files!
Luckily, we can use

    git reset hard --HEAD^

to revert to the previous commit.

Or, I wrongly `git add should_not_add_file` , we can also use

    git reset HEAD should_not_add_file
   
to upstage that file. 


## How to clone a specific branch
[Stolen from Stackoverflow again][cloneb]

    git clone -b <branch> <remote_repo>
Example:

     git clone -b my-branch git@github.com:user/myproject.git
Alternative (no public key setup needed):

    git clone -b my-branch https://git@github.com/username/myproject.git

[set up]: https://help.github.com/articles/set-up-git
[force]: http://stackoverflow.com/a/432518/1035859
[glob]: http://linux.about.com/library/cmd/blcmdl7_glob.htm
[pull_fetch]: http://stackoverflow.com/questions/292357/difference-between-git-pull-and-git-fetch
[re co]: https://help.github.com/articles/resolving-a-merge-conflict-from-the-command-line
[check doc]: http://git-scm.com/docs/git-checkout
[delete]: http://stackoverflow.com/questions/2003505/how-to-delete-a-git-branch-both-locally-and-remotely
[reflog]: http://alblue.bandlem.com/2011/05/git-tip-of-week-reflogs.html
[fllog]: http://stackoverflow.com/questions/17857723/whats-the-difference-between-git-reflog-and-log
[cloneb]: http://stackoverflow.com/questions/1911109/git-clone-a-specific-branch